enhance starter doc and script (#34058)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-net: doc/DataPlaneCodeGeneration/AzureSDKCodeGeneration_DataPlane_Quickstart.md

We build Azure SDK libraries to give developers a consistent, unified experience working with Azure services, in the language ecosystem where they're most comfortable.  Azure SDK Code Generation allows you to quickly and easily create a client library so customers can work with your service as part of the SDK.  In this tutorial, we will step through the process of creating a new Azure SDK Generated Client library for a data plane Azure service.  The output library will have an API that follows [.NET Azure SDK Design Guidelines](https://azure.github.io/azure-sdk/dotnet_introduction.html), which will give it the same look and feel of other .NET libraries in the Azure SDK.

> Azure SDK Code Generation takes an [typespec](https://microsoft.github.io/typespec/) as input, and uses the [autorest.csharp](https://github.com/Azure/autorest.csharp) generator to output a generated library.  It is important that the input typespec files (*.tsp) should comply with typespec lint rules, to enable the output library to be consistent with the Azure SDK Guidelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure SDK Code Generation takes a [TypeSpec](https://microsoft.github.io/typespec/) as input and uses the [autorest.csharp](https://github.com/Azure/autorest.csharp) generator to output a generated library.  It is important that the input TypeSpec files (*.tsp) should comply with TypeSpec lint rules so the output library is consistent with the Azure SDK Guidelines.
```

sdk\<service name>\<package name>\stress
sdk\<service name>\<package name>\tests
sdk\<service name>\<package name>\CHANGELOG.md
sdk\<service name>\<package name>\<package name>.sln
```

- `<service name>` - Should be the short name for the azure service. e.g. deviceupdate
- `<package name>` -  Should be the name of the shipping package, or an abbreviation that distinguishes the given shipping artifact for the given service. It will be `Azure.<group>.<service>`, e.g. Azure.IoT.DeviceUpdate

### Use Cadl as Input

#### Create Cadl project
  
  You can download existing cadl project from [azure-rest-api-specs](https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs) repo or you can follow following steps to create a new cadl project.

  ***Initialize Cadl Project***

  Follow [Cadl Getting Start](https://github.com/microsoft/cadl/#using-node--npm) to initialize your Cadl project.

  Make sure `npx cadl compile .` runs correctly.

  ***Add cadl-csharp emitter***

  Modify package.json, add one line under dependencies:

```diff
        "dependencies": {
          "@cadl-lang/compiler": "^0.37.0",
          "@cadl-lang/rest": "^0.19.0",
          "@azure-tools/cadl-azure-core": "^0.9.0",

> +         "@azure-tools/cadl-csharp": "0.1.8"

Reviewer 2: shall we update this dependency by using typespec-csharp?

Author: This line is to be removed.

> For first time to setup of a new sdk package, please verify you have met the prerequisites, including runtime environment, typespec project, sdk project folder. You can refer to [SDK Generation Prerequisites](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/doc/DataPlaneCodeGeneration/AzureSDKGeneration_Prerequistites.md) to setup.

Reviewer 3: Are these pre-reqs validated at runtime when we run the scripts? It is good to share these details in the beginning for people to read but if possible having these gates in place at runtime will also be useful.

Author: As @m-nash suggestion, we will sperate the requirement in another document, and just mention that customer to verify /setup those requirement before generate sdk. This QuickStart doc mainly focus on the SDK generation.

Reviewer 4: @pallavit are you suggesting that if someone just tries to run `dotnet build /t:GenerateCode` they get a clear error message saying `Your nodejs version must be >= 16.x.x`?

> For first time to setup of a new sdk package, please verify you have met the prerequisites, including runtime environment, typespec project, sdk project folder. You can refer to [SDK Generation Prerequisites](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/doc/DataPlaneCodeGeneration/AzureSDKGeneration_Prerequistites.md) to setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For first time to set up of a new SDK package, please verify you have met the prerequisites, including runtime environment, TypeSpec project, and SDK project folder. You can refer to [SDK Generation Prerequisites](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/doc/DataPlaneCodeGeneration/AzureSDKGeneration_Prerequistites.md) to set up.
```

Note: "set up" is the verb form.

> We will generate SDK under the SDK project folder of `azure-sdk-for-net`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will generate an SDK under the SDK project folder of `azure-sdk-for-net`.
```

> Before the library package can be released, you will need to add several requirements manually, including tests, samples, README, and CHANGELOG. Please refer to [Azure SDK Package Ship Requirements](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/doc/DataPlaneCodeGeneration/Azure_SDK_Package_Ship_Requirements.md) to add those requirements.

Reviewer 3: > add several requirements manually [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=60&length=34)

I am assuming we will create all the necessary folder structures for tests, samples and files like readme and changelog and this is mainly updating those with the right content for the SDK. If so, consider changing this to

Before library package can be released, you will need to add tests and samples. You will also need to update the changelogs and README's as necessary.

Author: updated. Thanks @pallavit

> Before library package can be released, you will need to add tests and samples. You will also need to update the changelogs and README's as necessary. Please refer to [Azure SDK Package Ship Requirements](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/doc/DataPlaneCodeGeneration/Azure_SDK_Package_Ship_Requirements.md) to add those requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before a library package can be released, you will need to add tests and samples. You will also need to update the CHANGELOG.md and README.md as necessary. Please refer to [Azure SDK Package Ship Requirements](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/doc/DataPlaneCodeGeneration/Azure_SDK_Package_Ship_Requirements.md) for those requirements.
```

- [Azure SDK Code Generation Quickstart Tutorial (Data Plane)](#azure-sdk-code-generation-quickstart-tutorial-data-plane)

>   - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)

Reviewer 4: Please make the pre-requisites its own document and simply have one sentence here along the lines of "For first time setup of a new package verify you have met the prerequisites."

Author: updated

Reviewer 4: We still have the `Create SDK Package` which is already in the `Prerequisites` link.  Can we remove this.

Author: updated.

  - [Setup your repository](#setup-your-repository)
  - [Create SDK Package](#create-sdk-package)

>     - [Use Cadl as Input API spec](#use-cadl-as-input-api-spec)

Reviewer 4: remove this as a heading, if someone links into this page that is what they are doing already.

Author: removed

Reviewer 4: I still see this section in the document

Author: `Create SDK Package` section? I removed this.

>       - [Before you Start](#before-you-start)

Reviewer 4: remove this section as it gives people completely different instructions vs what they need to do to generate dotnet sdk

Author: removed

      - [Generate SDK](#generate-sdk)

>     - [Use swagger as Input API spec](#use-swagger-as-input-api-spec)

Reviewer 4: Remove this section completely

Author: removed

> - [Azure SDK Code Generation Quickstart Tutorial (Data Plane)](#azure-sdk-code-generation-quickstart-tutorial-data-plane)

Reviewer 4: I am still quite confused where the line is between one time setup and what is needed to generate every time.

It looks like we created a new file `AzureSDKPackage_Setup.md` to handle the one time setup but there is still package setup steps in here which is confusing.

Can we create a clear separation between one time setup and "how to generate"

- `<service name>` - Should be the short name for the azure service. e.g. deviceupdate. It is usually your service name in REST API specifications. For instance, if the API spec is under `specification/storage`, the service would normally be `storage`.
- `<package name>` -  Should be the name of the shipping package, or an abbreviation that distinguishes the given shipping artifact for the given service. It will be `Azure.<group>.<service>`, e.g. Azure.IoT.DeviceUpdate

### Before you Start
  

>   Make sure you have typespec project in [azure-rest-api-specs](https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs) repo or you can follow [Typespec Getting Start](https://github.com/microsoft/typespec/#using-node--npm) to initialize your typespec project, and refer to [Typespec Structure Guidelines](https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs/blob/main/documentation/cadl-structure-guidelines.md) to configure your typespec project.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  Make sure you have typespec project in [azure-rest-api-specs](https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs) repo or you can follow [TypeSpec Getting Started](https://github.com/microsoft/typespec/#using-node--npm) to initialize your typespec project, and refer to [TypeSpec Structure Guidelines](https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs/blob/main/documentation/cadl-structure-guidelines.md) to configure your typespec project.
```

Also did you mean to make the getting started link to the node/npm anchor link?

Author: updated

  We will generate SDK library under SDK project folder `sdk\<servie name>\<package name>` of `azure-sdk-for-net` repo. e.g. /home/azure-sdk-for-net/sdk/anomalydetector/Azure.AI.AnomalyDetector).

  Make sure that the SDK project folder exists in [azure-sdk-for-net](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net) repo. If the SDK project folder does not exist, you can refer to [SDK project directory Set up](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/doc/DataPlaneCodeGeneration/AzureSDKPackage_Setup.md) to create one.

#### Generate SDK

We will generate SDK under the SDK project directory.

***configuration (optional)***

You can update `cadl-location.yaml` under sdk project directory to set the cadl project.

You can refer to the [cadl-location.yaml](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-tools/blob/main/doc/common/Cadl-Project-Scripts.md#cadl-locationyaml) which describes the supported properties in the file.

> **Note**: If you want to use a local specs repo that is already present, you can specify `spec-root-dir` to provide the path of the root directory of the specs repo, e.g. /home/azure-rest-api-specs, and don't provide the `commit` and `repo`.

Reviewer 4: remove this, `spec-root-dir` is an unsupported scenario.

Author: removed

***Generate Code***

Enter `src` sub-directory of cadl project folder, e.g. /home/azure-sdk-for-net/sdk/anomalyDetector/Azure.AI.AnomalyDetector/src
Run `dotnet build /t:GenerateCode`, and the code will be generated under `sdk\<servie name>\<package name>\src\Generated`

```dotnetcli
dotnet build /t:GenerateCode
```

> ### Use swagger as Input API spec

Reviewer 4: For everything below "Add package ship requirements" replace it with one sentence linking to a different page as it has nothing to do with cadl.

Author: updated.

sdk\<service name>\<package name>\<package name>.sln
```

- `<service name>` - Should be the short name for the azure service. e.g. deviceupdate. It is usually your service name in REST API specifications. For instance, if the API spec is under `specification/storage`, the service would normally be `storage`.
- `<package name>` -  Should be the name of the shipping package, or an abbreviation that distinguishes the given shipping artifact for the given service. It will be `Azure.<group>.<service>`, e.g. Azure.IoT.DeviceUpdate

### Use Cadl as Input API spec

#### Create Cadl project
  

>   You can download existing cadl project from [azure-rest-api-specs](https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs) repo or you can follow following steps to create a new cadl project.

Reviewer 4: this is misleading as it isn't needed if they use `dotnet build /t:GenerateCode`.  It also isn't part of the "one time setup steps" since they will need to do this every time they generate.

Author: Hello @m-nash This is to create cadl project folder  and configure csharp emitter in cadl-project.yml. All the SDK Generation will be put in the `Generate SDK` chapter.

Reviewer 4: Same comment as https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/pull/34058#discussion_r1114822746

  ***Initialize Cadl Project***

>   Follow [Cadl Getting Start](https://github.com/microsoft/typespec/#using-node--npm) to initialize your Cadl project.

Reviewer 4: This leads them down the wrong path, they won't have to do any of these steps if they use `dotnet build /t:GenerateCode`

Author: hello @m-nash This chapter is to describe how to initialize a cadl project to write cadl files.

Reviewer 4: This isn't something the `azure-sdk-for-net` repo needs to describe.  This is something the `azure-rest-api-specs` needs to describe.

We need a document which talks about how to generate the dotnet code.  This document can reference a `One time setup` step if needed for completeness but by the time you get to this document you have already written your cadl so we don't need to explain how to write your cadl.

>   Make sure `npx cadl compile .` runs correctly.

Reviewer 4: This is misleading as a customer will never need to run this if they use `dotnet build /t:GenerateCode`

Author: same as above

Reviewer 4: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/pull/34058#discussion_r1114822746

- `clear-output-folder` indicate if you want to clear up the output folder.
- `package-name` define the package folder name which will be used as service directory name under `sdk/` in azure-sdk-for-net repo.
- `save-inputs` indicate if you want to keep the intermediate files for debug purpose, e.g. the model json file (cadl.json) parsed from cadl file.

#### Create SDK project directory

We will generate SDK library under `sdk\<servie name>\<package name>` directory of `azure-sdk-for-net` repo. e.g. /home/azure-sdk-for-net/sdk/anomalydetector/Azure.AI.AnomalyDetector).

If the sdk project directory does not exist, you can refer to [SDK project directory Set up](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/doc/DataPlaneCodeGeneration/AzureSDKPackage_Setup.md) to create one.

#### Generate SDK

We will generate SDK under the SDK project directory.

***configuration***

You can update `cadl-location.yaml` under sdk project directory to set the cadl project.

`cadl-location.yaml` file should live under the project directory for each service and has the following properties

> | Property | Description | IsRequired |

Reviewer 4: We should not duplicate this documentation here if anything we should link to the source.

Author: updated.

  Make sure `npx cadl compile .` runs correctly.

  **Note**: It is recommended to configure Cadl Specs on [REST API specifications](https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs). Please refer to the [Guidelines](https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs/blob/main/documentation/cadl-structure-guidelines.md).

>   ***Configuration (optional)***

Reviewer 6: I think we should remove the word optional here as we will definitely to setup these configurations if we want to run the c# emitter.

Reviewer 3: Some of these options are required and so we should definitely do them.

Author: updated

  One can further configure the SDK generated, using the emitter options on @azure-tools/cadl-csharp.

  Modify (or create) cadl-project.yaml, add emitter options under options/@azure-tools/cadl-csharp.

```diff
parameters:
  "python-sdk-folder":
    default: "{cwd}/azure-sdk-for-python/"
  "java-sdk-folder":
    default: "{cwd}/azure-sdk-for-java/"
  "js-sdk-folder":
    default: "{cwd}/azure-sdk-for-js/"
  "chsarp-sdk-folder":
    default: "{cwd}/azure-sdk-for-chsarp/"
  "openapi-folder":
    default: "{project-root}/../dataplane/"
  "service-directory-name":
    default: mycadlproject
emit:
  - "@azure-tools/cadl-autorest"
options:
  "@azure-tools/cadl-csharp":
+    namespace: Azure.Template.MyCadlProject
+    "emitter-output-dir": "{csharp-sdk-folder}/sdk/{service-directory-name}/{namespace}/src"
```

  **Notes**:
  
  @azure-tools/cadl-csharp emitter options:  

- `namespace` define the client library namespace. e.g. Azure.IoT.DeviceUpdate.
- `emitter-output-dir` define the output dire path which will store the generated code.

> - `generate-protocol-methods` indicate if you want to generate **protocol method** for each operation. By default is true.

Reviewer 4: This needs to change to the [latest global names](https://github.com/Azure/cadl-azure/pull/2527/files#diff-056dab893146ee549ee9d568342b425963fd2b2561b76b7a4c31ab2b05f75da6R75-R76) or be omitted so it doesn't cause confusion.

Author: `generate-protocol-method` and `generate-convenience-method` those two options defined as emitter options if customer want to change the value.

  Make sure `npx cadl compile .` runs correctly.

  **Note**: It is recommended to configure Cadl Specs on [REST API specifications](https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs). Please refer to the [Guidelines](https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs/blob/main/documentation/cadl-structure-guidelines.md).

  ***Configuration***

  One can further configure the SDK generated, using the emitter options on @azure-tools/cadl-csharp.

  Modify (or create) cadl-project.yaml, add emitter options under options/@azure-tools/cadl-csharp. Option `namespace` and `emitter-output-dir` are required.

```diff
parameters:

>   "python-sdk-folder":

Reviewer 2: Can we focus one csharp only?  Not sure we should include the settings for other emitters.

Author: We recommend the customer to create the cadl project which complying the structure in the spec repo which will require to add those information in the cadl-project.yaml file.

Reviewer 4: We should not be documenting what the spec repo should document.  By the time they get to our document they already have all of this setup.

    default: "{cwd}/azure-sdk-for-python/"
  "java-sdk-folder":
    default: "{cwd}/azure-sdk-for-java/"
  "js-sdk-folder":
    default: "{cwd}/azure-sdk-for-js/"

>   "chsarp-sdk-folder":

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  "csharp-sdk-folder":
```

>     default: "{cwd}/azure-sdk-for-chsarp/"

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    default: "{cwd}/azure-sdk-for-csharp/"
```

  "openapi-folder":
    default: "{project-root}/../dataplane/"
  "service-directory-name":
    default: mycadlproject
emit:
  - "@azure-tools/cadl-autorest"
options:
  "@azure-tools/cadl-csharp":
+    namespace: Azure.Template.MyCadlProject
+    "emitter-output-dir": "{csharp-sdk-folder}/sdk/{service-directory-name}/{namespace}/src"
```

  **Notes**:
  
  @azure-tools/cadl-csharp emitter options:  

- `namespace` define the client library namespace. e.g. Azure.IoT.DeviceUpdate.

> - `emitter-output-dir` define the output dire path which will store the generated code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `emitter-output-dir` define the output dir path which will store the generated code.
```

If the sdk project directory does not exist, you can refer to [SDK project directory Set up](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/doc/DataPlaneCodeGeneration/AzureSDKPackage_Setup.md) to create one.

#### Generate SDK

We will generate SDK under the SDK project directory.

***configuration***

You can update `cadl-location.yaml` under sdk project directory to set the cadl project.

`cadl-location.yaml` file should live under the project directory for each service and has the following properties

| Property | Description | IsRequired |
| --- | --- | --- |
| <a id="directory-anchor"></a> directory | The top level directory where the main.cadl for the service lives.  This should be relative to the spec repo root such as `specification/cognitiveservices/OpenAI.Inference` | true |
| <a id="additionalDirectories-anchor"></a> additionalDirectories | Sometimes a cadl file will use a relative import that might not be under the main directory.  In this case a single `directory` will not be enough to pull down all necessary files.  To support this you can specify additional directories as a list to sync so that all needed files are synced. | false: default = null |

> | <a id="commit-anchor"></a> commit | The commit sha for the version of the cadl files you want to generate off of.  This allows us to have idempotence on generation until we opt into pointing at a later version. | true |

Reviewer 2: Don't quite understand this 'The commit sha for the version of the cadl files you want to generate off of.'

Author: The commit sha is to indicate the version of the cadl files to use.

> | <a id="repo-anchor"></a> repo | The repo this spec lives in.  This should be either `Azure/azure-rest-api-specs` or `Azure/azure-rest-api-specs-pr`.  Note that pr will work locally but not in CI until we add another change to handle token based auth. | true |

Reviewer 2: Note that pr will work locally but not in CI

Could you make it clear about what 'pr' mean here?  I think it means `Azure/azure-rest-api-specs-pr` instead of pull request right?

Author: Yes. updated to `Azure/azure-rest-api-specs-pr` for clarification.

- `-sdkPath` takes the address of the root directory of sdk repo. e.g. /home/azure-sdk-for-net [Required]
- `-cadlRelativeFolder` takes the relative path of the cadl project folder in spec repo. e.g. specification/cognitiveservices/AnomalyDetector [Required]
- `-additionalSubDirectories` takes the relative paths of the additional directories needed by the cadl project, such as share library folder, separated by semicolon if there is more than one folder. [Optional]
- `-commit` takes the git commit hash  (e.g. ac8e06a2ed0fc1c54663c98f12c8a073f8026b90)
- `-repo` takes the `<owner>/<repo>` of the REST API specification repository. (e.g. Azure/azure-rest-api-specs)
- `-specRoot` takes the file system path of the spec repo. e.g. /home/azure-rest-api-specs
- You need to provide the cadl project path, either (`-commit`, `-repo`) pair to refer to an URL path of the cadl project or `-specRoot` to refer to local file system path. If you provide both, `-specRoot` will be ignored.

> When you run `eng\scripts\automation\Invoke-CadlDataPlaneGenerateSDKPackage.ps1`, it will:

Reviewer 4: We need to separate out `One time steps` to setup your project in the sdk repo and `Generate` steps.

The `Invoke-CadlDataPlaneGenerateSDKPackage.ps1` should simply set up the folder structure and then we should instruct users to run `dotnet build /t:GenerateCode` so they get familiar with this command since that is how they will generate every time going forward.
